Add gemma-on-dataflow streaming example (#11284)
GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples: dataflow/gemma/README.md

### Create a custom container

You need to use Docker to build a custom container. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. Follow the [Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) that explains how to build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using Docker.

### Create Pub/Sub topics for input and output

Follow the [Google Cloud documentation for creating Pub/Sub topics](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console). This example uses two: one input topic and one output topic. For input, you will need to have a subscription to the topic to pass to the model. 

### Download and save the model

Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/keras/gemma/frameworks/keras/variations/gemma_2b_en), and then rename the downloaded archive to `gemma_2B`. Note that this is a directory, not a standalone file. 

> ### Import dependencies

Reviewer: You could add a venv creation in an appropriate place:

```
### (Optional) Create a new virtual environment

 **Note that the Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission. For this example, this should be Python 3.11.**

\```
python3.11 -m venv /tmp/venv
. /tmp/venv/bin/activate
\```

For more information, see: https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html

### Install dependencies
```

Reviewer: (ignore the  extra escape signs, it's for  github to not render backticks )

Author: Added

* Dataflow
* Pub/Sub
* Google Cloud Storage
* Artifact Registry

Using these services incurs billing charges.

### Create a custom container

You need to use Docker to build a custom container. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. Follow the [Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) that explains how to build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using Docker.

### Create Pub/Sub topics for input and output

Follow the [Google Cloud documentation for creating Pub/Sub topics](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console). This example uses two: one input topic and one output topic.

### Download and save the model

Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/keras/gemma/frameworks/keras/variations/gemma_2b_en), and then rename the downloaded archive to `gemma_2B`.

### Import dependencies

> Install Apache Beam and the dependencies required to run the pipeline in your local environment. **Note that the Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission.**

Reviewer: I'd say: example require python3.11 and add a command that checks the local python version is indeed 3.11. Another option is to also provide a flex template to submit the job, then template will control the python version.

Author: I added a call-out for the versions, we could drop a command to check here if desired

```
pip install -U -r requirements.txt

> pip install -q -U keras_nlp

Reviewer: i recommend that your requirements.txt  includes all of these libs with versions pinned.

Author: can't do that unfortunately. there are some keras dependency mismatches between tensorflow 2.15.0 and keras_nlp that lead to pip invocations failing if you have them both in the same file; however, if you install them separately you only get a warning message. it's a known issue with the libraries, but the mismatch doesn't cause any runtime problems

            predictions.append(result)
        return [PredictionResult(x, y) for x, y in zip(batch, predictions)]
```

### Formatting DoFn

The output from a keyed model handler is a tuple of the form `(key, PredictionResult)`. To format that output into a string before sending it to the answer Pub/Sub topic, use an extra `DoFn`.

```
class FormatOutput(beam.DoFn):
  def process(self, element, *args, **kwargs):
    yield "Key : {key}, Input: {input}, Output: {output}".format(key=element[0], input=element[1].example, output=element[1].inference)
```

## Start the pipeline
Run the following code from the directory to start the Dataflow streaming pipeline. Replace `$PROJECT`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$REGION`, `$CONTAINER_URI`, `$INPUT_TOPIC`, and `$OUTPUT_TOPIC` with the Google Cloud Project resources you created earlier. It may take around 5 minutes for the worker to start up and begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 

```
python custom_mode_gemma.py \
--runner=dataflowrunner \
--project=$PROJECT \
--temp_location=$GCS_BUCKET \
--region=$REGION \
--machine_type="g2-standard-4 \
--sdk_container_image=$CONTAINER_URI \ 
--disk_size_gb=200 \

> --dataflow_service_options="worker_accelerator=type:nvidia-l4;count:1;install-nvidia-driver" \

Reviewer: do l4 have freebie quota? if not, cst might need to get quota in the region of their choice.

Author: Added a call-out to check l4 quota in their project

> # RunInference on Dataflow Streaming with Gemma

Reviewer 2: maybe a walk through of how to test the pipeine while its running, so submit text with a prompt to A and then pull from B... etc,.

Author: See the "Send a prompt to the model" section

* Dataflow
* Pub/Sub
* Google Cloud Storage
* Artifact Registry

Using these services incurs billing charges.

You will also need to ensure that your GCP project has Nvidia L4 GPU quota enabled, see [Google Cloud Platform documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/resource-usage#gpu_quota) for more information.

### Create a custom container

You need to use Docker to build a custom container. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. Follow the [Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) that explains how to build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using Docker.

### Create Pub/Sub topics for input and output

Follow the [Google Cloud documentation for creating Pub/Sub topics](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console). This example uses two: one input topic and one output topic. For input, you will need to have a subscription to the topic to pass to the model. 

### Download and save the model

> Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/keras/gemma/frameworks/keras/variations/gemma_2b_en), and then rename the downloaded archive to `gemma_2B`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a note that this becomes a folder?

Author: Done

# RunInference on Dataflow Streaming with Gemma

Gemma is a family of lightweight, state-of-the art open models built from research and technology used to create the Gemini models.
You can use Gemma models in your Apache Beam inference pipelines with the `RunInference` transform.

> This example demonstrates how to utilize a Gemma model in a streaming Dataflow pipeline using Pub/Sub sources and sinks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to use a Gemma model in a streaming Dataflow pipeline that has Pub/Sub sources and sinks.
```

For more information about using RunInference, see [Get started with AI/ML pipelines](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/overview/) in the Apache Beam documentation.

## Before you begin

Follow the steps in this section to create the necessary environment to run this workflow.

### Enable Google Cloud services

This workflow uses multiple Google Cloud Platform products, including Dataflow, Pub/Sub, Google Cloud Storage, and Artifact Registry. Before you start the workflow, create a Google Cloud project that has the following services enabled:

* Dataflow
* Pub/Sub
* Google Cloud Storage
* Artifact Registry

Using these services incurs billing charges.

> You will also need to ensure that your GCP project has Nvidia L4 GPU quota enabled, see [Google Cloud Platform documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/resource-usage#gpu_quota) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your Google Cloud project also needs to have Nvidia L4 GPU quota. For more information, see [GPU quota](https://cloud.google.com/compute/resource-usage#gpu_quota) in the Google Cloud documentation.
```

### Create a custom container

> You need to use Docker to build a custom container. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. Follow the [Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) that explains how to build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using Docker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build a custom container, use Docker. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. To build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using DockerFollow, follow the instructions in the [Build and push the image](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) section of the "Build custom container images for Dataflow" page in the Google Cloud documentation.
```

### Create Pub/Sub topics for input and output

> Follow the [Google Cloud documentation for creating Pub/Sub topics](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console). This example uses two: one input topic and one output topic. For input, you will need to have a subscription to the topic to pass to the model. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create your Pub/Sub source and sink, follow the instructions in [Create a Pub/Sub topic](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console) in the Google Cloud documentation. For this example, create two topics, one input topic and one output topic. For input, the topic must have a subscription that you can provide to the Gemma model. 
```

### Download and save the model

> Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/keras/gemma/frameworks/keras/variations/gemma_2b_en), and then rename the downloaded archive to `gemma_2B`. Note that this is a directory, not a standalone file. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/keras/gemma/frameworks/keras/variations/gemma_2b_en). Rename the downloaded archive `gemma_2B`. This download is a directory, not a standalone file. 
```

> ### (Optional) Create a new virtual environment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Optional: Create a new virtual environment
```

>  **Note that the Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission. For this example, this should be Python 3.11.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission. For this example, use Python version 3.11.
```

```
python3.11 -m venv /tmp/venv
. /tmp/venv/bin/activate
```

> For more information, see: https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see [venv — Creation of virtual environments](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).
```

### Install dependencies

Install Apache Beam and the dependencies required to run the pipeline in your local environment. 

```
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

> ## Code Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Code Overview

This section provides details about the custom model handler and the formatting `DoFn` used in this example.
```

### Custom model handler

To simplify model loading, this notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model by using the model's `from_preset` method. Using this method decreases the time needed to load Gemma.

To customize the behavior of the handler, implement the following methods: `load_model`, `validate_inference_args`, and `share_model_across_processes`.

The Keras implementation of the Gemma models has a `generate` method
that generates text based on a prompt. To route the prompts correctly, use this function in the `run_inference` function.

```
class GemmaModelHandler(ModelHandler[str,
                                     PredictionResult,GemmaCausalLM
                                     ]):
    def __init__(
        self,
        model_name: str = "",
    ):

>         """ Implementation of the ModelHandler interface for spaCy using text as input.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        """ Implementation of the ModelHandler interface for Gemma using text as input.
```

```
class FormatOutput(beam.DoFn):
  def process(self, element, *args, **kwargs):
    yield "Key : {key}, Input: {input}, Output: {output}".format(key=element[0], input=element[1].example, output=element[1].inference)
```

## Start the pipeline
Run the following code from the directory to start the Dataflow streaming pipeline. Replace `$PROJECT`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$REGION`, `$CONTAINER_URI`, `$INPUT_TOPIC`, and `$OUTPUT_TOPIC` with the Google Cloud Project resources you created earlier. It may take around 5 minutes for the worker to start up and begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 

```
python custom_model_gemma.py \
--runner=dataflowrunner \
--project=$PROJECT \
--temp_location=$GCS_BUCKET \
--region=$REGION \
--machine_type="g2-standard-4" \
--sdk_container_image=$CONTAINER_URI \ 
--disk_size_gb=200 \
--dataflow_service_options="worker_accelerator=type:nvidia-l4;count:1;install-nvidia-driver:5xx" \
--messages_subscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION \
--responses_topic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC \
--model_path="gemma_2B"
--save_main_session
```

## Send a prompt to the model and check the response

> From the Google Cloud Platform page for your previously created input Pub/Sub topic, navigate to the "Messages" tab and click the "Publish Message" button. You can then drop a message into the pipeline that will be picked up by the Dataflow job, passed through the model, and then have the output published to the response Pub/Sub topic. You can then manually pull messages from the destination topic to check the response from the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the Google Cloud console, navigate to the Pub/Sub topics page, and then select your input topic. On the **Messages** tab, click **Publish Message**. Add a message into the pipeline for the Dataflow job to pick up and pass through the model. Finally, the Dataflow job outputs the response to the Pub/Sub sink topic. To check the response from the model, you can then manually pull messages from the destination topic. For more information, see [Publish messages](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/publisher#publish-messages) in the Google Cloud documentation.
```

## Clean up resources

> To avoid incurring further costs, you should do the following once you're done:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To avoid incurring charges to your Google Cloud account for the resources used in this example, clean up the resources that you created.
```

> *   Cancel the streaming Dataflow job

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   Cancel the streaming Dataflow job.
```

> *   Delete the PubSub topic and subscriptions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   Delete the Pub/Sub topic and subscriptions.
```

> *   Delete the custom container from Artifact Registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   Delete the custom container from Artifact Registry.
```

> *   Empty the `tmp` directory of your GCS storage bucket

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   Empty the `tmp` directory of your Google Cloud Storage bucket.
```

### Create Pub/Sub topics for input and output

To create your Pub/Sub source and sink, follow the instructions in [Create a Pub/Sub topic](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console) in the Google Cloud documentation. For this example, create two topics, one input topic and one output topic. For input, the topic must have a subscription that you can provide to the Gemma model. 

### Download and save the model

Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/keras/gemma/frameworks/keras/variations/gemma_2b_en). Rename the downloaded archive `gemma_2B`. This download is a directory, not a standalone file. 

### Optional: Create a new virtual environment

The Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission. For this example, use Python version 3.11.

```
python3.11 -m venv /tmp/venv

> . /tmp/venv/bin/activate

Reviewer 5: Nit: can we change `.` to `source`? It's a little bit more explicit and easier to read.

Author: done

```

For more information, see [venv — Creation of virtual environments](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).

### Install dependencies

Install Apache Beam and the dependencies required to run the pipeline in your local environment. 

```
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

## Code Overview

This section provides details about the custom model handler and the formatting `DoFn` used in this example.

### Custom model handler

To simplify model loading, this notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model by using the model's `from_preset` method. Using this method decreases the time needed to load Gemma.

To customize the behavior of the handler, implement the following methods: `load_model`, `validate_inference_args`, and `share_model_across_processes`.

The Keras implementation of the Gemma models has a `generate` method
that generates text based on a prompt. To route the prompts correctly, use this function in the `run_inference` function.

> ```

Reviewer 5: For syntax higlighting, let's do ` ```py `

Author: done

> class GemmaModelHandler(ModelHandler[str,
>                                      PredictionResult,GemmaCausalLM
>                                      ]):

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
class GemmaModelHandler(
    ModelHandler[str, PredictionResult, GemmaCausalLM]
):
```

    def load_model(self) -> GemmaCausalLM:
        """Loads and initializes a model for processing."""
        return keras_nlp.models.GemmaCausalLM.from_preset(self._model_name)

    def run_inference(
        self,
        batch: Sequence[str],
        model: GemmaCausalLM,
        inference_args: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None
    ) -> Iterable[PredictionResult]:
        """Runs inferences on a batch of text strings.

        Args:
          batch: A sequence of examples as text strings.
          model:
          inference_args: Any additional arguments for an inference.

        Returns:
          An Iterable of type PredictionResult.
        """
        # Loop each text string, and use a tuple to store the inference results.
        predictions = []
        for one_text in batch:
            result = model.generate(one_text, max_length=64)
            predictions.append(result)
        return [PredictionResult(x, y) for x, y in zip(batch, predictions)]
```

### Formatting DoFn

The output from a keyed model handler is a tuple of the form `(key, PredictionResult)`. To format that output into a string before sending it to the answer Pub/Sub topic, use an extra `DoFn`.

> ```

Reviewer 5: For syntax higlighting, let's do ` ```py `

class FormatOutput(beam.DoFn):
  def process(self, element, *args, **kwargs):
    yield "Key : {key}, Input: {input}, Output: {output}".format(key=element[0], input=element[1].example, output=element[1].inference)
```

## Start the pipeline
Run the following code from the directory to start the Dataflow streaming pipeline. Replace `$PROJECT`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$REGION`, `$CONTAINER_URI`, `$INPUT_TOPIC`, and `$OUTPUT_TOPIC` with the Google Cloud Project resources you created earlier. It may take around 5 minutes for the worker to start up and begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 

```
python custom_model_gemma.py \

> --runner=dataflowrunner \

Reviewer 5: Nit: can we indent each option to show that they're part of the `python` command?

```bash
python custom_model_gemma.py \
  --runner=dataflowrunner \
  --project=$PROJECT \
  .....
```

Author: done
